Adapter constraint support tables (#3944)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/govern/model-contracts.md

1. dbt will run a "preflight" check to ensure that the model's query will return a set of columns with names and data types matching the ones you have defined. This check is agnostic to the order of columns specified in your model (SQL) or YAML spec.
2. dbt will include the column names, data types, and constraints in the DDL statements it submits to the data platform, which will be enforced while building or updating the model's table.

## Platform constraint support

> Adapter-specific constraint support across platforms. 

Reviewer: sugg a little more context and intro

```suggestion
Select the adapter-specific tab for more info on adapter-specific constraint support across platforms. 
```

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="Redshift" label="Redshift">

> | constraint type | support       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Constraint type | Support       |
```

|:----------------|:-------------|

> | not_null        | 🌕 supported & enforced     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| not_null        | 🌕 Supported and enforced     |
```

> | primary_key     | 🌗 supported; not enforced  |

Reviewer: sugg making the 'support' column consistent 

```suggestion
| primary_key     |  🌗 Supported and not enforced  |
```

> | foreign_key     | 🌗 supported; not enforced  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| foreign_key     | 🌗 Supported and not enforced  |
```

Reviewer: won't add my changes but i'm suggesting the same for all of the rows

| unique          | 🌗 supported; not enforced  |
| check           | 🌑 not supported  |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Snowflake" label="Snowflake">

> | constraint type | support       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Constraint type | Support       |
```

|:----------------|:-------------|
| not_null        | 🌕 supported & enforced     |
| primary_key     | 🌗 supported; not enforced  |
| foreign_key     | 🌗 supported; not enforced  |
| unique          | 🌗 supported; not enforced  |
| check           | 🌑 not supported |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="BigQuery" label="BigQuery">

> | constraint type | support       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Constraint type | Support       |
```

|:-----------------|:-------------|
| not_null        | 🌕 supported & enforced     |
| primary_key     | 🌕 supported & enforced     |
| foreign_key     | 🌕 supported & enforced     |
| unique          | 🌑 not supported |
| check           | 🌑 not supported |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Postgres" label="Postgres">

> | constraint type | support       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Constraint type | Support       |
```

|:----------------|:-------------|
| not_null        | 🌕 supported & enforced     |
| primary_key     | 🌕 supported & enforced  |
| foreign_key     | 🌕 supported & enforced  |
| unique          | 🌕 supported & enforced |
| check           | 🌕 supported & enforced |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Spark" label="Spark">

> `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced. In the current implementation, however, these constraints are only enforced after a model builds. Due to this platform limitation, these are considered `supported` but `not enforced` and are not a part of the "model contract" since they can't be enforced at build time. This table will be updated as the features evolve.

Reviewer: slight simplification
```suggestion
`not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced. Currently,  constraints are enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, the constraints are considered `supported` but `not enforced` and not part of the "model contract" since they can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.
```

> | constraint type | support      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Constraint type | Support       |
```

|:----------------|:------------|
| not_null        | 🌗 supported; not enforced |
| primary_key     | 🌗 supported; not enforced |
| foreign_key     | 🌗 supported; not enforced |
| unique          | 🌗 supported; not enforced |
| check           | 🌗 supported; not enforced |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Databricks" label="Databricks">

> `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced. In the current implementation, however, these constraints are only enforced after a model builds. Due to this platform limitation, these are considered `supported` but `not enforced` and are not a part of the "model contract" since they can't be enforced at build time. This table will be updated as the features evolve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
`not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced. Currently,  constraints are enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, the constraints are considered `supported` but `not enforced` and not part of the "model contract" since they can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.
```

> | constraint type | support      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Constraint type | Support       |
```

1. dbt will run a "preflight" check to ensure that the model's query will return a set of columns with names and data types matching the ones you have defined. This check is agnostic to the order of columns specified in your model (SQL) or YAML spec.
2. dbt will include the column names, data types, and constraints in the DDL statements it submits to the data platform, which will be enforced while building or updating the model's table.

## Platform constraint support

> Select the adapter-specific tab for more information on constraint support across platforms. Constraints fall into three categories based on support and platform enforcement:

Author: ```suggestion
Select the adapter-specific tab for more information on [constraint](/reference/resource-properties/constraints) support across platforms. Constraints fall into three categories based on support and platform enforcement:
```

> Select the adapter-specific tab for more info on adapter-specific constraint support across platforms. Constraints fall into three categories based on support and platform enforcement:

Reviewer 2: Can we remove the repetition here to help clarify?
```suggestion
Select the adapter-specific tab for more information on constraint support across platforms. Constraints fall into three categories based on support and platform enforcement:
```

- **Supported and enforced** &mdash; The model won't build if it violates the constraint.

> - **Supported and not enforced** &mdash; The platform supports specifying the type of constraint, but a model can still build even if it violates it. It's a constraint for metadata purposes only. This is common for modern cloud data warehouses and less common for legacy databases.

Reviewer 2: Suggest replacing a few "it"s to help those who don't primarily speak English follow along.
```suggestion
- **Supported and not enforced** &mdash; The platform supports specifying the type of constraint, but a model can still build even if building the model violates the constraint. This constraint exists for metadata purposes only. This is common for modern cloud data warehouses and less common for legacy databases.
```

> - **Not supported and not enforced** &mdash; You can't specify the type of constraint for the platform.

Reviewer 3: It would be nice if the bolded descriptions were more readable. Right now, the last one feels too verbose and the middle one could be more precise.

Would the following in conjunction with the split columns be clear enough?
- **Enforced** or **Supported and enforced** or **Supported & enforced**
- **Supported (but not enforced)** or **Supported but not enforced** or **Supported; not enforced**
- **Not supported** or **Not supported (and not enforced)**

https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/3944#pullrequestreview-1583017309 begins the original discussion about this.

| not_null        | ✅  Supported | ✅ Enforced     |
| primary_key     | ✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced  |
| foreign_key     | ✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced  |
| unique          | ✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced  |
| check           | ❌ Not supported | ❌ Not enforced |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="BigQuery" label="BigQuery">

| Constraint type | Support       | Platform enforcement |
|:-----------------|:-------------|:---------------------|
| not_null        | ✅ Supported  | ✅ Enforced     |
| primary_key     | ✅ Supported  | ✅ Enforced     |
| foreign_key     | ✅ Supported  | ✅ Enforced     |
| unique          | ❌ Not supported | ❌ Not enforced |
| check           | ❌ Not supported | ❌ Not enforced |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Postgres" label="Postgres">

| Constraint type | Support      | Platform enforcement |
|:----------------|:-------------|:--------------------|
| not_null        | ✅  Supported |	✅  Enforced |
| primary_key     | ✅  Supported |	✅  Enforced |
| foreign_key     | ✅  Supported |	✅  Enforced |
| unique          | ✅  Supported |	✅  Enforced |
| check           | ✅  Supported |	✅  Enforced |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Spark" label="Spark">

> `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced. Currently,  constraints are enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, the constraints are considered `supported` but `not enforced` and not part of the "model contract" since they can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.

Reviewer 2: Suggest simplifying a little.
```suggestion
Currently, `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, dbt considers these constraints `supported` but `not enforced`, which means they're not part of the "model contract" since these constraints can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.
```

> Currently, `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, dbt considers these constraints `supported` but `not enforced`, which means they're not part of the "model contract" since these constraints can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.

Reviewer 3: Like the identical Databricks copy below, this paragraph is confusing.

I'd suggest rewriting for more clarity, potentially like the following:

> Currently, `not_null` and `check` constraints are applied only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, dbt considers these constraints `supported` but `not enforced`, which means they're not part of the "model contract" since these constraints can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.

| Constraint type | Support     | Platform enforcement |
|:----------------|:------------|:---------------------|
| not_null        |	✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced |
| primary_key     |	✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced |
| foreign_key     |	✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced |
| unique          |	✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced |
| check           |	✅  Supported | ❌ Not enforced |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Databricks" label="Databricks">

> `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced. Currently,  constraints are enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, the constraints are considered `supported` but `not enforced` and not part of the "model contract" since they can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, dbt considers these constraints `supported` but `not enforced`, which means they're not part of the "model contract" since these constraints can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.
```

> Currently, `not_null` and `check` constraints are supported and enforced only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, dbt considers these constraints `supported` but `not enforced`, which means they're not part of the "model contract" since these constraints can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.

Reviewer 3: Like the identical Spark copy above, this paragraph is confusing.

I'd suggest rewriting for more clarity, potentially like the following:

> Currently, `not_null` and `check` constraints are applied only after a model builds. Because of this platform limitation, dbt considers these constraints `supported` but `not enforced`, which means they're not part of the "model contract" since these constraints can't be enforced at build time. This table will change as the features evolve.
